docs/flat-matching-design.md, before:

# Flat Frame Matching

When no exact-date flat exists, the tool can find and use flats from other dates. This requires user confirmation to ensure equipment changes haven't invalidated older flats.

## Enabling Flexible Matching

```bash
ap-copy-master-to-blink <library> <blink> --flat-state ~/.ap-flat-state.yaml
```

Without `--flat-state`: exact date matches only.

With `--flat-state`: interactive date selection when no exact match exists.

## How It Works

1. **Exact match found** → use it, update state file cutoff to this date
2. **No exact match** → gather candidate flat dates, filter by cutoff, prompt user

The state file tracks the **oldest valid flat date** per blink directory. Flats older than the cutoff are automatically excluded.

When an exact-match flat is used, the cutoff advances to that date. This keeps the cutoff current as new flats are taken.

## Interactive Selection

When prompted, an interactive picker appears:

```
No exact flat for 2025-08-20 (filter: Ha)

  2025-08-15  (5 days older)
▸ 2025-08-03  (17 days older)
  2025-08-25  (5 days newer)
  ────────────────────────────
  None of these (rig changed)

↑/↓ to move, Enter to select
```

Navigate with arrow keys, select with Enter.

**Selecting a date**: Uses that flat, updates cutoff to selected date.

**Selecting "none of these"**: Records the light date as cutoff (rig changed), marks flat missing.

## Quiet Mode

With `--quiet`: **exact date matches only**. No fallback selection, no prompting. Missing flats are logged and counted.

## State File

Simple YAML mapping blink directory to cutoff date:

```yaml
"/data/RedCat51@f4.9+ASI2600MM/10_Blink": "2025-09-01"
```

Flats from the cutoff date or later are valid. The cutoff advances automatically when exact-match flats are used or when the user selects a flat interactively.

Commit message:

Fix interactive picker example
Show only two candidates: newest older (pre-selected) and oldest newer.

https://claude.ai/code/session_0181rRarF55PcEXTRemd93xk

docs/flat-matching-design.md, after:

# Flat Frame Matching

When no exact-date flat exists, the tool can find and use flats from other dates. This requires user confirmation to ensure equipment changes haven't invalidated older flats.

## Enabling Flexible Matching

```bash
ap-copy-master-to-blink <library> <blink> --flat-state ~/.ap-flat-state.yaml
```

Without `--flat-state`: exact date matches only.

With `--flat-state`: interactive date selection when no exact match exists.

## How It Works

1. **Exact match found** → use it, update state file cutoff to this date
2. **No exact match** → gather candidate flat dates, filter by cutoff, prompt user

The state file tracks the **oldest valid flat date** per blink directory. Flats older than the cutoff are automatically excluded.

When an exact-match flat is used, the cutoff advances to that date. This keeps the cutoff current as new flats are taken.

## Interactive Selection

When prompted, an interactive picker appears:

```
No exact flat for 2025-08-20 (filter: Ha)

▸ 2025-08-17  (3 days older)
  2025-08-25  (5 days newer)
  ────────────────────────────
  None of these (rig changed)

↑/↓ to move, Enter to select
```

Two candidates: the newest older flat (pre-selected) and the oldest newer flat. Navigate with arrow keys, select with Enter.

**Selecting a date**: Uses that flat, updates cutoff to selected date.

**Selecting "none of these"**: Records the light date as cutoff (rig changed), marks flat missing.

## Quiet Mode

With `--quiet`: **exact date matches only**. No fallback selection, no prompting. Missing flats are logged and counted.

## State File

Simple YAML mapping blink directory to cutoff date:

```yaml
"/data/RedCat51@f4.9+ASI2600MM/10_Blink": "2025-09-01"
```

Flats from the cutoff date or later are valid. The cutoff advances automatically when exact-match flats are used or when the user selects a flat interactively.
